---
title: "Banach Space Mixed Formulations for the Convection-Diffusion-Reaction System Based upon Brinkman–Forchheimer Equations."
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-02-07-Talca-Numerica
venue: "Universidad Católica del Maule, Campus San Miguel, Talca, Chile"
date: 2025-02-07
location: "Talca, Chile"
---

We introduce and analyze new mixed formulations for coupling the Brinkman–Forchheimer equations with
a convection-diffusion-reaction phenomenon within a Banach space-based framework. Specifically, for the Brinkman–
Forchheimer equations, we consider a pseudostress-velocity mixed formulation, while for the convection-diffusion-
reaction equations, we analyze two distinct approaches. First, we formulate the coupled problem using a mixed-primal
strategy. Then, we reformulate the convection-diffusion-reaction part by introducing the pseudodiffusion vector as an
additional unknown, leading to a fully mixed formulation of the coupling. In the mixed-primal approach, the Dirich-
let boundary condition for the concentration is enforced through a suitable Lagrange multiplier. In contrast, the fully
mixed approach avoids this requirement but introduces an additional and more restrictive assumption on the data. We
establish the well-posedness of both formulations using a fixed-point strategy and prove the well-posedness of the un-
coupled problems via the Babuˇ ska–Brezzi theory and the Banach–Neˇ cas–Babuˇ ska theorem. Additionally, we provide a
discrete analysis for both approaches under specific assumptions on arbitrary finite element spaces. In particular, by using
Raviart–Thomas spaces and discontinuous polynomial spaces that satisfy the corresponding hypotheses, optimal theo-
retical convergence orders are achieved. Finally, we illustrate the theoretical results through several numerical examples,
comparing both approaches and testing the associated data assumptions.
